Arrays are arguably the simplest data structure. It is a collection of elements of the same data type that are stored in contiguous memory locations. Each element in the array has a number associated with it representing its location within the array called **index**, which can go from 0 (first element) to n-1 (last element, n being the size of the array).

Some characteristics might differ in each programming language, in Java it is possible to access the length property through the array itself as it is an object, while in C/C++ the array is not an object but you can get the length through a simple calculation using the keyword `sizeof`.

Even though the concept of an array itself is quite simple, there's a lot of things concerning the use of arrays that are relatively more complex, the most clear example of this is the sorting algorithms. Sorting is about a very simple problem: placing the elements inside of the array in order (usually ascending or descending based on some numerical value). There's a lot of ways of solving this problem. Some are simple, some are complex. Some are slow, some are quick. Some work with specific data types, other don't. There's a lot of things to be considered.

There are pros and cons on using arrays. The main advantages are: it's a very simple structure, it's memory-efficient because of the contiguous storing and it's also very fast to get data from a known index. However, it has problems with its fixed size, insertion and deletion is very time consuming (because it might need to shift a lot of elements) and it might waste space if at some point the array is not entirely used.

